Fix Performance Analyzer documentation (#4713)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _monitoring-your-cluster/pa/index.md

  - /monitoring-plugins/pa/index/
---

# Performance Analyzer

> The Performance Analyzer plugin is an agent and REST API that allows you to query numerous performance metrics for your cluster, including aggregations of those metrics. 

Reviewer: Can we remove `plugin` from line 13. `plugin` and `agent` are contradictory.

If you need to install the Performance Analyzer plugin manually, download the plugin from [Maven](https://search.maven.org/search?q=org.opensearch.plugin) and install the plugin using the standard [plugins install]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/install/plugins/) process. Performance analyzer will run on each node in a cluster.

To start the Performance Analyzer  root cause analysis (RCA) agent on a tarball installation, run the following command:
      
````bash
OPENSEARCH_HOME=~/opensearch-2.2.1 OPENSEARCH_JAVA_HOME=~/opensearch-2.2.1/jdk OPENSEARCH_PATH_CONF=~/opensearch-2.2.1/bin ./performance-analyzer-agent-cli
````

The following command enables the Performance Analyzer plugin and Performance Analyzer  RCA agent:

````bash
curl -XPOST localhost:9200/_plugins/_performanceanalyzer/cluster/config -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"enabled": true}'
````

## Disable Performance Analyzer

If you prefer to save memory and run your local instance of OpenSearch with the Performance Analyzer plugin enabled, use the following steps.

1. Shut down the Performance Analyzer  RCA agent by running the following command:

  ```bash

>   kill $(ps aux | grep -i 'PerformanceAnalyzerApp' | grep -v grep | awk '{print $2}')

Reviewer: Instead of Shell Command, can we use the following API:
```
curl -XPOST localhost:9200/_plugins/_performanceanalyzer/rca/cluster/config -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"enabled": false}'
```
and mention waiting for 5s for the disable to take effect before executing the next step.

  - /monitoring-plugins/pa/index/
---

# Performance Analyzer

> Performance Analyzer is an agent and REST API that allows you to query numerous performance metrics for your cluster, including aggregations of those metrics. 

Reviewer 2: agent or plugin? Plugin is used later.

Author: There's a distinction between both within Performance Analyzer itself. Performance Analyzer as a whole is comprised of:

- The PA plugin, the installation files found in OpenSearch core.
- The RCA agent, which runs independent of the plugins settings but requires the plugin.

It's something I want to circle back on for the doc as a whole with @khushbr

> The Performance Analyzer plugin is installed by default in OpenSearch version 2.0 and higher. If you want to use OpenSearch 2.0 or later with Performance Analyzer disabled, see [Disable Performance Analyzer](#disable-performance-analyzer).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Performance Analyzer plugin is installed by default in OpenSearch version 2.0 and later. If you want to use OpenSearch 2.0 or later with Performance Analyzer disabled, see [Disable Performance Analyzer](#disable-performance-analyzer).
```

{: .note }

## Prerequisites

> Review the following prerequisites before installing Performance Analyzer.

Reviewer 2: I thought it was installed by default? Maybe something like, "To install the plugin independently of OpenSearch 2.0 or later, review the following prerequisites before installing it manually."

Author: A more accurate description to prevent the issue our user had might be "Before using Performance Analyzer with OpenSearch, review the following prerequisites.

### Storage

Performance Analyzer uses `/dev/shm` for temporary storage. During heavy workloads on a cluster, Performance Analyzer can use up to 1 GB of space.

> Docker, however, has a default `/dev/shm` size of 64 MB. To change this value, you can use the `docker run --shm-size 1gb` flag or [a similar setting in Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file#shm_size).

Reviewer 2: Is it recommended to increase the value?

Author: Yes, otherwise, OpenSearch might not run with PA at all. We recommend increasing the memory usage of Docker as a whole, see the call out in https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/install-and-configure/install-opensearch/docker/#install-docker-and-docker-compose.

> If you're not using Docker, check the size of `/dev/shm` using `df -h`. The default value is probably plenty, but if you need to change its size, add the following line to `/etc/fstab`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're not using Docker, you can check the size of `/dev/shm` using `df -h`. The default value should be adequate, but if you need to change its size, add the following line to `/etc/fstab`:
```
?

```bash
tmpfs /dev/shm tmpfs defaults,noexec,nosuid,size=1G 0 0
```

> Then remount the file system:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, remount the file system:
```
(but, defer to NB)

```bash
mount -o remount /dev/shm
```

### Security 

Performance Analyzer supports encryption in transit for requests. It currently does *not* support client or server authentication for requests. To enable encryption in transit, edit `performance-analyzer.properties` in your `$OPENSEARCH_HOME` directory.

> ```bash

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```properties
```

vi $OPENSEARCH_HOME/config/opensearch-performance-analyzer/performance-analyzer.properties
```

Change the following lines to configure encryption in transit. Note that `certificate-file-path` must be a certificate for the server, not a root certificate authority (CA).

> ````bash

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
````properties
```

https-enabled = true

#Setup the correct path for certificates
certificate-file-path = specify_path

private-key-file-path = specify_path
````

## Install Performance Analyzer 

> The Performance Analyzer plugin is included in the installation for [Docker]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/install/docker/) and [tarball]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/install/tar/). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Performance Analyzer plugin is included in the installation for [Docker]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/install/docker/) and [tarball]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/install/tar/), but you can also install the plugin manually. 
```

> If you need to install the Performance Analyzer plugin manually, download the plugin from [Maven](https://search.maven.org/search?q=org.opensearch.plugin) and install the plugin using the standard [plugins install]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/install/plugins/) process. Performance Analyzer will run on each node in a cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To install the Performance Analyzer plugin manually, download the plugin from [Maven](https://search.maven.org/search?q=org.opensearch.plugin) and install it using the standard [plugins install]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/opensearch/install/plugins/) process. Performance Analyzer runs on each node in a cluster.
```

To start the Performance Analyzer root cause analysis (RCA) agent on a tarball installation, run the following command:
      
````bash
OPENSEARCH_HOME=~/opensearch-2.2.1 OPENSEARCH_JAVA_HOME=~/opensearch-2.2.1/jdk OPENSEARCH_PATH_CONF=~/opensearch-2.2.1/bin ./performance-analyzer-agent-cli
````

> The following command enables the Performance Analyzer plugin and Performance Analyzer  RCA agent:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following command enables the Performance Analyzer plugin and Performance Analyzer RCA agent:
```

> The following command enables the Performance Analyzer plugin and Performance Analyzer RCA agent:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following command enables the Performance Analyzer plugin. 
```

Reviewer 2: This is confusing because I thought the plugin contained the agent?

````bash
curl -XPOST localhost:9200/_plugins/_performanceanalyzer/cluster/config -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"enabled": true}'
````

## Disable Performance Analyzer

> If you prefer to save memory and run your local instance of OpenSearch with the Performance Analyzer plugin enabled, use the following steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you prefer to save memory and run your local instance of OpenSearch with the Performance Analyzer plugin disabled, use the following steps.
```
?

> 1. Before disabling Performance Analyzer, stop any currently running RCA agent action using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Before disabling Performance Analyzer, use the following command to stop any currently running RCA agent action:
```
(suggestion only)

  ```bash
  curl -XPOST localhost:9200/_plugins/_performanceanalyzer/rca/cluster/config -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"enabled": false}'
  ```

2. Shut down the Performance Analyzer RCA agent by running the following command:

  ```bash
  kill $(ps aux | grep -i 'PerformanceAnalyzerApp' | grep -v grep | awk '{print $2}')
  ```

> 2. Disable the Performance Analyzer plugin by running the following command:

Reviewer: Numbering is incorrect; repeating 2. twice

Author: Fixed

  ```bash
  curl -XPOST localhost:9200/_plugins/_performanceanalyzer/cluster/config -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d '{"enabled": false}'
  ```

3. Uninstall the Performance Analyzer plugin by running the following command:

  ```bash
  bin/opensearch-plugin remove opensearch-performance-analyzer
  ```

## Configure Performance Analyzer 

> To configure the Performance Analyzer plugin, you will need to edit the `performance-analyzer.properties` configuration file in the `config/opensearch-performance-analyzer/` directory. Make sure to uncomment the line `#webservice-bind-host` and set it to `0.0.0.0`. You can reference the following example configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure the Performance Analyzer plugin, edit the `performance-analyzer.properties` configuration file in the `config/opensearch-performance-analyzer/` directory. Make sure to uncomment the line `#webservice-bind-host` and set it to `0.0.0.0`. You can reference the following example configuration.
```

# Agent Stats Metadata file name, expected to be in the same location
agent-stats-metadata = agent-stats-metadata
````

> To start the Performance Analyzer RCA agent, run the following command.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To start the Performance Analyzer RCA agent, run the following command:
```

> To start the Performance Analyzer  RCA agent, run the following command.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To start the Performance Analyzer RCA agent, run the following command.
```

````bash
OPENSEARCH_HOME=~/opensearch-2.2.1 OPENSEARCH_JAVA_HOME=~/opensearch-2.2.1/jdk OPENSEARCH_PATH_CONF=~/opensearch-2.2.1/bin ./performance-analyzer-agent-cli
````

> ## Enable Performance Analyzer  for RPM/YUM installations

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Enable Performance Analyzer for RPM/YUM installations
```

> If you installed OpenSearch from an RPM distribution, you can start and stop Performance Analyzer  with `systemctl`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you installed OpenSearch from an RPM distribution, you can start and stop Performance Analyzer with `systemctl`.
```

> If you installed OpenSearch from an RPM distribution, you can start and stop Performance Analyzer  with `systemctl`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you installed OpenSearch from an RPM distribution, you can start and stop Performance Analyzer with `systemctl`.
```

}
```

### Related links

Further documentation on the use of Performance Analyzer and RCA can be found at the following links:

> - [Performance Analyzer API guide]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/monitoring-plugins/pa/api/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Performance Analyzer API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/monitoring-your-cluster/pa/api/).
```

> - [RCA]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/monitoring-plugins/pa/rca/index/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Root cause analysis]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/monitoring-your-cluster/pa/rca/index/).
```

> - [RCA API guide]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/monitoring-plugins/pa/rca/api/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Root cause analysis]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/monitoring-your-cluster/pa/rca/api/).
```

> - [Performance Analyzer API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/monitoring-your-cluster/pa/api/).

Reviewer 4: No periods necessary here because the list items aren't complete sentences and don't complete the introductory stem.

> - [Root cause analysis]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/monitoring-your-cluster/pa/rca/index/).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [Root cause analysis]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/monitoring-your-cluster/pa/rca/index/)
```

> - [RFC: Root cause analysis](https://github.com/opensearch-project/performance-analyzer-rca/blob/main/docs/rfc-rca.pdf).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [RFC: Root cause analysis](https://github.com/opensearch-project/performance-analyzer-rca/blob/main/docs/rfc-rca.pdf)
```
